# reference
ref. http://docs.pgbarman.org/release/2.5/
ref. https://medium.com/@deepakputhraya/postgresql-backup-and-recovery-with-barman-a41c81dd10fd
ref. https://severalnines.com/blog/using-barman-backup-postgresql-overview
these 0th-found from google search guide is CONFUSING; better one resides in digitalocean site

highly recommended guide
[Sadequl Hussain on digitalocean](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-back-up-restore-and-migrate-postgresql-databases-with-barman-on-centos-7)


# info 0th
Barman aka. backup and recovery manager
       aka. a Python based open-source tool developed by developers at 2nd Quadrant
            an enterprise-grade db backup tool for postgresql production databases
            resemble Oracle’s RMAN tool

WAL aka. write ahead logs
    aka. transactional logs 
    aka. xlog
    
**WAL files** must be stored alongside with **base backups**
WAL file size 16MB
    
WAL is a standard method for ensuring data integrity
> changes to data files must be written only after log records describing the changes have been flushed to permanent storage. 

Incremental data backup i.e. a **base backup** with incremental **WAL files**
Barman is able to operate remotely against the database servers via the network
though, Barman server should NOT be too far from postgresql server, so that backup/recovery time be kept under-control 

Barman's config has **global** config and **per-postgres** config

Taking advantage of `rsync` for backup operations

Barman v2.0 supports `pg_basebackup` aka. postgres's streaming replication protocol aka. **streaming backup** 
caution that with streaming, some features currently NOT AVAILABLE eg incremental backup, parallel backup, deduplication, and network compression


# why Barman?
`pg_dump` will backup only the :db at the time we run `pg_dump`
the gap between the two backup times will be lost

the right solution to do backup is this
> back up the contents of the PostgreSQL **data directory** AND the **WAL files**

**WAL files** contain lists of CRUD transactions that happen to the database
the actual data contained in db files located in the **data directory** ie $PGDATA
```bash
        PGDATA=/var/lib/postgresql/10/main/
    base_files=/var/lib/postgresql/10/main/base/
     wal_files=/var/lib/postgresql/10/main/pg_wal/
```
when restoring, postgresql `restores the contents of $PGDATA the data directory first`, 
and `then plays the transactions on top of it from the WAL files`

normally DBAs would write their own backup scripts and scheduled cron jobs to implement backup & restore
**Barman helps to do this in a standardized way**


# basic architecture
barman installation on ubuntu
here we choose [scenario 2 - Backup via rsync/SSH plus streaming](http://docs.pgbarman.org/release/2.5/#scenario-2-backup-via-rsyncssh)

require having the WAL archiving & backup methods to use [ref.](http://docs.pgbarman.org/release/2.5/#design-and-architecture)
TODO do we need streaming? how it works with WAL-rsync? any conflicts?

01 postgresql server        aka. :pg
02 backup server w/ Barman  aka. :backup

naming note
  `pg`       as host name where postgres instance is installed
  `backup`   as host name where Barman is located
  `barman`   as ubuntu user running Barman on the `backup` server (identified by the parameter barman_user in the configuration)
  `postgres` as ubuntu user running postgres on the `pg` serve
  `$xxx`     is value placeholder requiring us to fill in concrete values
             eg. $pg required an instance name as `pg`

related users in the flow
  `postgres` on `pg` server
  `barman`   on `backup` server
  `sudoer`   on all servers to **switch among the above two roles**


# installation
ref. http://docs.pgbarman.org/release/2.5/#setup-of-a-new-server-in-barman
please do install before going next steps
install Barman on :backup w/ ubuntu 16
```bash
sudoer@backup $ sudo apt install -y barman
sudoer@backup $ sudo su - barman # add if needed - param `-` as force to use user-logged-in bash prompt
sudoer@backup $ barman --verion # should see Barman version here
```
Barman's home will be at **/var/lib/barman/**


# required connectivity
[view detail](00b.setup-connectivity.md)


# config
[details on config](01a.barman-install-n-config.md)


# aftermath test for Barman setup
[detail in this file](zz.aftermath-check.md)


# misc note
requirement notes
    python 3 support is experimental
    file system XFS, Ext4
    time is synchronised between servers e.g. using NTP

default settings
    checkpoint_timeout    max_wal_size 
    05 minutes            01 GB  
